Day 1


1. Understand the need for PATH, CLASSPATH. Try setting it and viewing it.


export PATH=
export CLASSPATH=

Create a simple shell script with echo "Hello" and execute it from the same directory. Now move to some other directory and try executing it using PATH.

Write a small java program (say a "Hello World" program) and put it in a directory . Compile the program and change directory to some other directory
and try to execute the class file .

2.  Write a program to print the size of different data types in Java (list all the data types!).

3.  Write a program to reverse a string using StringBuffer class (do not use String class for data manipulation!)
               a. Input from command line.
               b. Read the input from program.

4.  Understand the difference between String and StringBuffer classes by writing small programs.

5.  Understand the need for packages. Write a class with a package statement in it and try to run it.


----

1. List down the differences between String and StringBuffer class.

2. Learning about access specifiers (Write java programs to understand the difference between , public ,private,package and protected specifiers!)
 
 What is the meaning of declaring a class public? (try this by putting the class in a package and try to access the class from a different package!).

3. Learning about scope specifiers also what is the difference between instance variable and class variable?
 
 Write programs and try using local scope/method scope/member scope variables and how to access them.

4. Write a java program to print the system properties (Hint : Refer to System class)
 
 Try to print the current working directory from you java program.

5. Write two classes (say "A" and "B") , in class "A" create an instance of class "B" .
 
 Compile class "A" in some directory "D1" and class "B" in "D2" ,now A.class and B.class are in two separate directories.
 
 Try to run class "A" from directory "D1" (it will say class "B" not found). If you set classpath to both directories then it will work (try it
out!)

 Try to set the class path from the class "A" itself (instead of specifying the classpath in the shell, try to set in your java prog! )

----

1. Is the method main belong to any class? , if not why? , if so what  are the access privileges to that method?//

2. Is it possible to have a private class? (write a class and try it out! , try protected also!)

3. Is it possible to have a private constructor? (write a class and try it out! ) , if possible how do you create an instance of it from another class?

4. What is the meaning of declaring a variable "static" ? (write a program to bring out the difference between instance and class variables).

5. What is the meaning of declaring a method "static" ? how do you invoke such a method ?//

6. In java, are the parameters passed by reference or by value (Write a  program to test for basic data types , arrays ,strings ,string arrays and custom objects !)